Once you get your Bitcoin Core Wallet,
it helps to takes some time to get used to the basic functionality available to you.
And in this video,
we'll overview the basics of this wallet to help get you familiar with this new tool.
When you first load up your wallet,
you'll see a note showing how far along your wallet has synced.
It shows the number of blocks left along
with some other information down by the bottom of the screen.
Now this is helpful but I generally
hide this right away to get to the more important information.
After hiding the first screen,
we will be on the overview page of your wallet.
This is where you'll see things like the balance that you have
available as well as the recent transactions you've made.
Along the top here is the navigation bar that you
can use to access other parts of your wallet. Let's click "Send".
From here, we can see the details about sending transactions using your Bitcoin wallet.
If you've previously used another wallet like Electrum for example,
some of this might look familiar.
To send a transaction,
your Bitcoin wallet requests an address to pay to,
a label to help organize the transaction and an amount.
You can use these buttons here on the right to
copy this information if you need to use it elsewhere.
Along the bottom here,
you'll see a transaction fee that you can setup for
yourself as well as the ability to send,
clear information, and add new recipients through the transaction.
Next up, navigate to the received panel.
This again hopefully looks pretty similar to other wallets you've used.
Here, you have the option to request Bitcoin using your wallet.
You can enter a label,
an amount and a message to the recipient.
Once making a request, you'll also be able to see details like
the date and other details of the requests in this window down below.
Now let's navigate to the transaction window.
Here, you'll see the details of all transactions that happened using your wallet.
While the overview window gave us a set of recent transaction,
this screen gives you a list of every transaction.
You can organize these transactions by the date,
type, label, and amount similar to ordering a spreadsheet.
Along the top, you also have the option to search for specific transactions using
any field or by setting constraints
to get back any transaction that meets a certain criteria.
Now that we've seen each window on the main screen,
let's navigate to other parts of the wallet using the file menu.
So along the top here you'll see "Bitcoin Core",
"File", "Settings" and "Help".
Under "File", you can sign and verify
a message as well as access you're sending and receiving addresses.
Using "Help", you can access a "Search" bar,
the "Debug" window and "Command-line Options" that are available in the tool.
The debug console is a tool that we'll be using to
explore blockchain data later throughout the lesson.
Now the command line options are really helpful,
but they're for a different use in this case.
These allow you to access blockchain data from beyond
the debug console using these command-line options.
We won't be going over this in this lesson but
it will be helpful later on when we start building applications.
Finally, it helps to know where all of this information is coming from.
If you haven't already checked back to
the directory where you saved your Bitcoin Core client,
try navigating there now.
If you've saved it to the default location and forgot where it was,
check out the link down below.
So on the Mac, it's listed as,
saved under library/application support/ Bitcoin.
What you'll see is all the information that is available for your copy of the blockchain.
In there you'll find the blocks, chained state,
log, test network, wallet and a few other features.
You might not see the bitcoin.conf file like I have here just yet and that's fine.
This is a file that you can use to override some of the standard functionality of
the application but we'll get you set up with your own Bitcoin configuration file soon.
Now these are all the basic options available to
you when getting started with the Bitcoin Core Wallet.
Coming up, we'll dig a little deeper into this tool and get
our hands dirty with the options available to us as developers.